---
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
feature_text: |
  ## Practical Genomics Workshop 2023
---

Since 2011, Johns Hopkins faculty have organized the annual **Practical Genomics Workshop**. This multi-day workshop focuses on teaching biologists how to analyze and interpret data being generated by the latest genomic technologies. 

The past two years have seen an evolution from an in-person event teaching RNA-seq and ChIP- seq analysis, to a multi-institution hybrid event focused on single cell analysis. An accessible learning environment, with opportunities to ask questions, is facilitated by the presence of many teaching assistants, such as Convergence trainees **Theron Palmer** and **Jeanette Johnson**. 

What initially started as a collaboration between faculty at the School of Medicine and Bloomberg School of Public Health has evolved into a multi-institutional effort involving **Dr. Frederick Tan** from Carnegie Institution and **Dr. Luigi Marchionni** from Weill Cornell Medicine. The ongoing support of the Convergence Institute allows this workshop to continue teaching bioinformatics skills, encouraging transdisciplinary science, and increasing awareness of cutting-edge technologies.

## About the Workshop

**Thank you for your interest in Practical Genomics Workshop 2023.**

The Practical Genomics workshop typically runs **four full days** over the course of **two weeks**.

**Week 1** — The first two day sessions assume little to no prior computational experience and introduce participants to data transformation and visualization using cloud computing, R/RStudio, tidyverse, and Bioconductor.

**Week 2** — The last two day sessions introduce the basics of single cell analysis (clustering and marker genes) and subsequent topics (multiple samples and trajectory analysis) using Bioconductor frameworks.

Participants are required to complete approximately one day of preparatory work to create the appropriate cloud computing accounts and familiarize themselves with R and RStudio console. This work is essential as all sessions incorporate hands-on activities such as live coding demos where learners code-along with instructors and breakout exercises where learners practice with the support of TA’s. Due to this hands-on design, recordings will not be available but all instructional materials will be usable after the workshop.

For those proficient with R, tidyverse, and Bioconductor, please contact us to discuss the possibility of only attending the last two day sessions.
